In the last video, we went over many of the different file types you can upload to IPFS.
All these files can be shared with others using
the unique hash value found in the terminal window.
One thing we haven't looked at yet is the ability to add code into IPFS.
It's possible to work with files like HTML, JavaScript,
CSS and any other type of program in IPFS.
This code can be opened in the browser and is viewable in the same way as other files.
But in this case, it's working like a web host rather than just simple file storage.
In this video, we'll get started with a basic website
using HTML that you can view in the browser.
We'll create an HTML file and add it to IPFS.
Since it's important that websites have a static URL that doesn't change over time,
we'll go over how you can create one using IPFS and something known as IPNS,
the Interplanetary Naming System.
To get started, make a directory to hold the HTML file for your website.
Next, change into this directory.
Now, create an HTML file.
I'll do that using touch my-website.html.
Now, open this file in your code editor.
I left some simple HTML code down below the video that you can paste into this file.
As you can see, it's about as simple as it gets for HTML.
I've got a title and it says 'Hello world'.
Feel free to update this if you'd like before adding it to IPFS.
Next, we'll go back to the terminal and add this website to IPFS.
We'll do this a little differently than before.
First, use ipfs add just like before.
Next, we'll do another step that publishes this file to IPNS.
The command is ipfs name publish.
To run this command,
you type this followed by the hash of the file you just added.
Before running this command,
check it out in the Help menu for a better idea of what's going on.
To do that, type ipfs name -- help.
Feel free to read through this for some extra details about IPNS.
Ipfs name publish allows you access to IPNS
which provides a single hash value that you can use to access your website.
They do this using pointers within the hash values that are created within each file.
It takes a second to run.
So, first, let's run it.
While it's working, I'll explain a little bit about what's going on here.
Run this command by typing ipfs name publish followed by the name of your HTML file.
To understand what's going on,
it's important to know a little more about what's
happening when the hash values are created by the network.
An easy way to understand this is by thinking about how blockchains work.
Even though each block has its own unique hash value,
it's not completely random.
Each block also references the block before it.
This allows us to know the order of blocks which allows us to
trace the entire chain back to the original block if we wanted to.
The same thing is going on here.
Every version of a file published with IPFS and
IPNS references earlier versions of that file.
That makes it possible to trace files back through
all the versions that have ever been created just like blocks.
Knowing that we can use IPNS to create
a static hash that references the most recent version of a file.
As new versions are created,
the pointer from IPNS updates to reference the new hash value.
This makes it possible to have a website that we can
actually update while maintaining a URL.
So, by now, your site has hopefully been published.
You'll see that you've been given two hash values now.
The first is the IPNS hash.
This is the one that will remain the same.
The second is the unique hash for that version of the file.
You can still always look up this file by its hash but this one will only
ever reference the exact file it was uploaded, not future versions.
You can go back to your HTML file,
update it, and then publish it back to this first hash value.
This will make it so that the most recent version is
still accessible through this hashes URL.
So, that wraps up this section.
As you can see, even though HTML can be treated as just another file,
I used the opportunity to show you how IPNS helps improve the management of these files.
This same publishing technique works for any file you might want to work with.
You can go back and use it for text,
images, videos or whatever you'd like.
Coming up, we'll use this same idea to get you set up with
your own personal profile page hosted on IPFS.